README.md, before:

# cb-mpc-go

A production-focused Go wrapper around [Coinbase's cb-mpc](https://github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc) multi-party computation (MPC) library. The goal of this repository is to surface a safe, ergonomic, and well-structured Go API while building directly from the C++ source tree. All tooling runs natively by default, and you can opt into a reproducible Docker environment by exporting `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` (the same mode used by CI).

## Repository layout

- `cb-mpc`: git submodule tracking the upstream C++ library.
- `pkg/cbmpc`: public Go API surface with MPC protocol implementations.
- `internal/bindings`: CGO bridge to the C++ cb-mpc library.
- `examples/`: example programs demonstrating MPC protocols (agree-random-2p, agree-random-mp, etc.).
- `Dockerfile`: development container image that matches the CI environment.
- `.github/workflows/`: GitHub Actions pipelines for linting and testing pull requests.

## Getting started

1. Install prerequisites:

   ```bash
   brew install git-lfs            # or use your distro package manager
   git lfs install
   ```

   The upstream cb-mpc submodule stores several assets in Git LFS; without these commands `git submodule update` will emit warnings and leave large binaries out of sync.

2. Clone the repository and initialize submodules:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:coinbase/cb-mpc-go.git
   cd cb-mpc-go
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   ```

  The `cb-mpc` submodule is pinned to a specific commit SHA. When contributing, keep it at the recorded revision unless you are preparing an intentional bump (see `docs/adr/0005-submodule-pin-policy.md`).

   Alternatively run `scripts/bootstrap.sh` to automate LFS setup, submodule sync, tool downloads, and the initial builds.

3. Build the cb-mpc C++ static library from source without installing it system-wide:

   ```bash
   make build-cbmpc
   ```

   The examples below run natively. If you prefer the Linux dev container, prefix commands with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` (Docker must be available and running).

   Native builds write artefacts under `build/openssl-host` and `build/cb-mpc-host`. When running with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1`, the helper scripts isolate the container builds under `build/openssl-docker` and `build/cb-mpc-docker` to avoid CMake cache conflicts.

4. Run the (currently minimal) Go test suite (the target depends on `make build-cbmpc` to ensure the native library is present):

   ```bash
   make test
   ```

   On a clean macOS install the helper script automatically downloads Go 1.23.12 into `build/go-host`. Set `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` if you prefer to run the tests inside the dev container, which will keep its own toolchain under `build/go-docker`.

5. Run Go linters:

   ```bash
   make lint
   ```

   A matching `golangci-lint` v1.64.8 binary is installed into `build/bin-host` (or `build/bin-docker` in container mode) on demand.

## Development workflow

- `make bootstrap` runs Git LFS setup, syncs submodules, and performs the initial cb-mpc build.
- `make lint-fix` formats and auto-fixes lint findings when supported by `golangci-lint`.
- `make vuln` executes `govulncheck ./...` with the pinned toolchain, while `make sec` wraps `gosec` with exclusions for generated cgo shims. Run `make tools` once to install the pinned security tools into `build/tools/bin`.
- `make tidy-check` ensures `go.mod` and `go.sum` stay clean by running `go mod tidy` and failing on diffs.
- `make clean` removes all generated build artefacts, including the local cb-mpc build directory.
- Tool shims bootstrap pinned Go and `golangci-lint` toolchains automatically and keep separate caches per environment flavour (`*-host` vs `*-docker`) so you can switch between native macOS and Linux container runs without manual cleanup. Export `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` to run the same workflow inside the dev container.
- The `Dockerfile` mirrors the tooling used in CI, allowing local validation via `docker build .`.

## Continuous integration

GitHub Actions workflows invoke the same Make targets (`make lint`, `make vuln`, `make sec`, `make test`) on every pull request with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1`, covering a Linux container matrix across amd64 and arm64 plus a native macOS host job so both environments stay healthy.

## Next steps

- Model higher-level Go APIs that expose safe MPC workflows
- Expand testing (unit and integration) around the bindings once available

Commit message:

Doc (#31)
* pkg doc

* more docs

README.md, after:

# cb-mpc-go

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc-go.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc-go)

A production-focused Go wrapper around [Coinbase's cb-mpc](https://github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc) multi-party computation (MPC) library. The goal of this repository is to surface a safe, ergonomic, and well-structured Go API while building directly from the C++ source tree. All tooling runs natively by default, and you can opt into a reproducible Docker environment by exporting `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` (the same mode used by CI).

## Repository layout

- `cb-mpc`: git submodule tracking the upstream C++ library.
- `pkg/cbmpc`: public Go API surface with MPC protocol implementations.
- `pkg/cbmpc/internal/backend`: CGO bridge to the C++ cb-mpc library.
- `examples/`: example programs demonstrating MPC protocols (agree-random-2p, agree-random-mp, etc.).
- `Dockerfile`: development container image that matches the CI environment.
- `.github/workflows/`: GitHub Actions pipelines for linting and testing pull requests.

## Getting started

1. Install prerequisites:

   ```bash
   brew install git-lfs            # or use your distro package manager
   git lfs install
   ```

   The upstream cb-mpc submodule stores several assets in Git LFS; without these commands `git submodule update` will emit warnings and leave large binaries out of sync.

2. Clone the repository and initialize submodules:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:coinbase/cb-mpc-go.git
   cd cb-mpc-go
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   ```

  The `cb-mpc` submodule is pinned to a specific commit SHA. When contributing, keep it at the recorded revision unless you are preparing an intentional bump (see `docs/adr/0005-submodule-pin-policy.md`).

   Alternatively run `scripts/bootstrap.sh` to automate LFS setup, submodule sync, tool downloads, and the initial builds.

3. Build the cb-mpc C++ static library from source without installing it system-wide:

   ```bash
   make build-cbmpc
   ```

   The examples below run natively. If you prefer the Linux dev container, prefix commands with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` (Docker must be available and running).

   Native builds write artefacts under `build/openssl-host` and `build/cb-mpc-host`. When running with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1`, the helper scripts isolate the container builds under `build/openssl-docker` and `build/cb-mpc-docker` to avoid CMake cache conflicts.

4. Run the (currently minimal) Go test suite (the target depends on `make build-cbmpc` to ensure the native library is present):

   ```bash
   make test
   ```

   On a clean macOS install the helper script automatically downloads Go 1.25.2 into `build/go-host`. Set `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` if you prefer to run the tests inside the dev container, which will keep its own toolchain under `build/go-docker`.

5. Run Go linters:

   ```bash
   make lint
   ```

   A matching `golangci-lint` v1.64.8 binary is installed into `build/bin-host` (or `build/bin-docker` in container mode) on demand.

## Development workflow

- `make bootstrap` runs Git LFS setup, syncs submodules, and performs the initial cb-mpc build.
- `make lint-fix` formats and auto-fixes lint findings when supported by `golangci-lint`.
- `make vuln` executes `govulncheck ./...` with the pinned toolchain, while `make sec` wraps `gosec` with exclusions for generated cgo shims. Run `make tools` once to install the pinned security tools into `build/tools/bin`.
- `make tidy-check` ensures `go.mod` and `go.sum` stay clean by running `go mod tidy` and failing on diffs.
- `make clean` removes all generated build artefacts, including the local cb-mpc build directory.
- Tool shims bootstrap pinned Go and `golangci-lint` toolchains automatically and keep separate caches per environment flavour (`*-host` vs `*-docker`) so you can switch between native macOS and Linux container runs without manual cleanup. Export `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1` to run the same workflow inside the dev container.
- The `Dockerfile` mirrors the tooling used in CI, allowing local validation via `docker build .`.

## Documentation

- View docs locally with:

  ```bash
  make doc
  # then open http://localhost:6060/github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc-go
  ```

- Hosted API docs are available on pkg.go.dev: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/coinbase/cb-mpc-go

## Continuous integration

GitHub Actions workflows invoke the same Make targets (`make lint`, `make vuln`, `make sec`, `make test`) on every pull request with `CBMPC_USE_DOCKER=1`, covering a Linux container matrix across amd64 and arm64 plus a native macOS host job so both environments stay healthy.

## Next steps

- Model higher-level Go APIs that expose safe MPC workflows
- Expand testing (unit and integration) around the bindings once available
